Welcome to the repository for my project from PSTAT126: Regression Analysis 

The overall focus of the project was performing various regression technqiues on a publicly-sourced dataset. Working with another classmate, we sourced a dataset from Kaggle about median housing prices in Californian neighborhoods during the 1990s. During our investigation, we looked at house various variables affected our response variable (median house value) by applying linear regression techniques we learned throughout the class. Additionally, we experiemented with lasso and ridge regression to investigate whether non-linear models outperformed regression techniques in predicting median house value. Along with the final report and code, I included the four steps of the project that contributed to the final result.

Step 1: In step one of the project we performed exploratory data analysis to gain insight to our dataset. While performing the EDA we gained insight into specific variables that informed our choices for what variables to investigate in later steps. Additionally, we changed some of the variables in our dataset to better suit our needs for regression tasks. The final result includes visualizations of some variables in the dataset as well as our analysis of how to move forward.

Step 2: In step two we investigate whether median income is a signnificant predictor of median house value. While performing this hypotheis testing, we also validate assumptions for our dataset and come up with alternative hypotheses to test in step 3.

Stpe 3: In step three we investigate whether other variables, including interaction terms, are significant predictors of median house value. Performing these tests required us to validate properties about the data set again and create other visualizations to investigate the relationships between specific variables. We conclude this step by investigating outliers in our newly-created linear model and create confidence and prediction intervals for median house value given a specific combination of values for our investigated variables. 

Step 4: In step four we investigate whether models performing ridge and lasso regression improve the predictive accuracy compared to the multi-linear regression model we developed in part 3. Our analysis includes introducing and aplpying the theory for lasso and ridge regression as well as a visual comparing the predictive accuracy of the models. 
